qt6.wrapQtAppsHook: add `qtwayland` to `propagatedBuildInputs` (#352419)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/languages-frameworks/qt.section.md

The same goes for Qt 5 where libraries and tools are under `libsForQt5`.

> Any Qt package should include `wrapQtAppsHook` (or `wrapQtAppsNoGuiHook`) in `nativeBuildInputs`, or explicitly set `dontWrapQtApps` to bypass generating the wrappers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any Qt package should include `wrapQtAppsHook` or `wrapQtAppsNoGuiHook` in `nativeBuildInputs`, or explicitly set `dontWrapQtApps` to bypass generating the wrappers.
```

::: {.note}

> `wrapQtAppsHook` will propagate `qtwayland` to ensure the Wayland platform plugin is available, which is useful for graphical applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`wrapQtAppsHook` propagates `qtwayland` to ensure the Wayland platform plugin is available, which is required for graphical applications to run under wayland on none Qt based desktops.
```

> `wrapQtAppsHook` propagates `qtwayland` to ensure the Wayland platform plugin is available, which is required for graphical applications to run under wayland on non-Qt based desktops.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't do that anymore, does it?

> `wrapQtAppsNoGuiHook` will not propagate any qt components to reduce closure size for purely command-line applications.

Reviewer 2: Qt

Reviewer 2: Also, maybe "anything but qtbase"? qtbase is technically a Qt component

Reviewer 3: "additional qt components", I propose.

Author: > Also, maybe "anything but qtbase"? qtbase is technically a Qt component

Well it does not propagate that currently?

> `wrapQtAppsHook` propagates plugins and QML components from `qtwayland` to ensure the Wayland platform plugin is available, which is required for graphical applications to run under Wayland on non-Qt based desktops. On platforms that do not support `qtwayland` (e.g. Darwin), only plugins `qtbase` will be propagated.

Reviewer 2: plugins _from_ `qtbase`?

> `wrapQtAppsHook` propagates plugins and QML from `qtbase` and `qtwayland` to ensure the Wayland platform plugin is available, which is required for graphical applications to run under wayland on non-Qt based desktops. On platforms that do not support `qtwayland` (e.g. Darwin), only plugins and QML `qtbase` will be propagated.

Reviewer 2: qtbase can't contain QML, as it's a dependency of qtdeclarative. Also, "QML components" is probably the more correct term. Also, Wayland, capitalized. Sorry if I'm nitpicking too much.

> `wrapQtAppsNoGuiHook` does not propagate `qtwayland` reduce closure size for purely command-line applications.

Reviewer 2: _to_ reduce closure size

> `wrapQtAppsNoGuiHook` will not propagate any Qt components to reduce closure size for purely command-line applications.

Reviewer 2: Propagating qtbase in noGuiHook is probably fine as it's basically impossible to write a Qt app without it.

Reviewer 4: You could be using a cross‐platform library that abstracts over Qt entirely. (Admittedly less likely for a CLI app.)

Reviewer 2: You'll still have qtbase in the closure.
